.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id$
.TH issniff 8 "20 March 1997" "Version @@IS_VERSION@@" "NRAO/AUI"
.SH NAME
issniff \- Industrial Strength SNIFFer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
issniff
[options] [+]\fBport\fR [[+]port ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBissniff\fR switches the selected (or auto-detected) network interface
into "promiscuous" mode and monitors the network traffic visible to that
interface, collecting data on TCP-protocol network connections to the
destination port(s) selected on the command line.  Alternatively,
packets may be read from a local packet-dump file created by 'tcpdump',
or from a pipe from 'tcpdump'.
.sp
At least one port must be specified.  A '+' prefix on a port number
means to monitor traffic in both directions on connections to that port.
.sp
When a new network connection to a selected port is detected (a
\fISYN\fR packet), \fBissniff\fR starts collecting data for that
connection.  Once the connection terminates (a \fIFIN\fR or \fIRST\fR
packet), or times out or exceeds the maximum data collection threshold,
the data collected during the duration of the connection is printed to
\fIstdout\fR, together with the connection's relevant statistics: hosts
and ports involved, time-stamps, packet counts, bytes, and the reason
for data-collection termination.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
Track all connections--even those for which no \fISYN\fR packet was
seen--allowing monitoring of already-established connections.  (Doesn't
work correctly yet; still a semi-functional--and buggy--"stub.")
.TP
.BI -c \ cache_increment
The number of connection entries to expand the data cache by when an
expansion is required.  (Default is \fI16\fR, an arbitrary value.)
.sp
Higher values should result in an infinitesimal speed improvement, but
will also cause \fBissniff\fR to use more memory.
.TP
.BI -d \ max_data
The maximum amount of data, in bytes, to collect for a connection before
dumping its data/statistics and discontinuing data-collection.  (Default
is \fI4096\fR, an arbitrary value.)  Note that each collected byte takes
up two bytes of internal storage.
.TP
.BI -i \ interface
The network interface to monitor.  (Default is the first auto-detected
interface of a known type, using the following priority scheme for
Linux: Ethernet, SLIP, loopback, and dummy; please note that PPP is not
yet supported, though will be very shortly.  Ethernet is the only
interface supported on non-Linux systems at this time.)
.TP
.B -n
No local packets/connections.  Only packets/connections originating from
\fBother\fR systems will be passed through to the packet-filtering
layer, i.e. locally-originating packets/connections will be "lost."
(Default is to pass/process all packets/connections on OS's that support
it, currently Linux and OSF/1; this option has no effect under SunOS.)
.sp
Note that under OSF/1 this option will also disable the monitoring of
\fBincoming\fR packets to the local host.
.TP
.BI -o \ filename
Send output to \fIfilename\fR.  Verbose commentary messages--normally
sent to standard error--will not be written to this file.  (See also
\fB-O\fR.)
.TP
.BI -O \ filename
Send output to both \fIfilename\fR and standard output.  Verbose
commentary messages--normally sent to standard error--will not be
written to this file.  (See also \fB-o\fR.)
.TP
.B -r
"Real-time" mode.  Sniffer detaches from tty and uses shared memory to
communicate with an interactive ncurses-based front-end.  (Not yet
implemented!)
.TP
.B -s
"Squash" output.  Consecutive carriage-returns/newlines in the collected
data will be replaced by a single newline in the printed output.
.TP
.BI -t \ timeout
The maximum idle time, in seconds between successive packets, allowed
for a connection before dumping its data/statistics and discontinuing
data-collection.  (Default is \fI3600\fR; one hour.)
.sp
A timeout value of \fI0\fR disables the timeout feature.  This is not
recommended usage: \fBissniff\fR could eventually malloc() all computer
storage.
.sp
Due to the timeout algorithm used, some connections may not time out
until their idle time has significantly exceeded this threshold value.
This is not a bug.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.  Output one-line descriptions of new connections to
\fIstderr\fR each time one is detected.
.TP
.BI -w \ filename
Take packet input from a packet-dump file written by 'tcpdump -w', vice
from a "real-time" network interface.  (Still under development; only
works under Linux so far.)
.sp
A \fIfilename\fR of - means to read input from stdin, as via a pipe from
a 'tcpdump -w -' command.
.TP
.B -C
Colorize output, with color selection based on the travel direction of
the packets--useful when monitoring traffic in both directions on a
port.  Session headers, statistics, etc., are uncolorized.
.sp
The color numbers are the same as for Linux's color-capable 'ls'
program:
.sp
30 black
.br
31 red
.br
32 green
.br
33 yellow
.br
34 blue
.br
35 magenta
.br
36 cyan
.br
37 white
.sp
You must have a color-capable terminal, such as the Linux console or an
xterm with colorization extensions, to use this option effectively.
.TP
.BI -F \ color
Color number to use for output of data traveling from a monitored port
("backwards").  Implies \fB-C\fR.  (Default is \fI34\fR; blue).
.TP
.BI -T \ color
Color number to use for output of data traveling to a monitored port.
Implies \fB-C\fR.  (Default is \fI31\fR; red.)
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B USR1
Causes \fBissniff\fR to output its current state information to
\fIstderr\fR.
.TP
.B USR2
Causes \fBissniff\fR to output a summary list of the currently-active
network connections it is collecting data for to \fIstderr\fR.
.TP
.B HUP
Display full output for all currently-active connections, then resume
monitoring.
.TP
.B INT
Exit with full output for all currently-active connections.  Turns off
promiscuous mode.
.TP
.B QUIT
Exit immediately, with no output.  Turns off promiscuous mode.
.TP
.B TERM
Exit immediately, with no output.  Turns off promiscuous mode.
.TP
.B KILL
Do \fBnot\fR send a \fISIGKILL\fR to \fBissniff\fR; doing so will leave
the network interface it was monitoring in promiscuous mode on some
OS's.  \fBissniff\fR exits cleanly on: \fISIGINT\fR, \fISIGQUIT\fR, and
\fISIGTERM\fR.  (In fact, these are the only exit methods supported.)
.SH BUGS
Tcpdump "interface" still buggy and under development.
.sp
OSF/1 (Digital UNIX) seems to be garbling output now and then.
Investigating.
.sp
Recent changes have not been tested for proper functionality under
SunOS; however, they compile fine.
.SH NOTE
Some features and/or options have not yet been implemented.
\fBissniff\fR has been tested under:
.sp
Linux: 1.2.13, 1.3.45, 1.99.x., 2.0.x.
.br
OSF/1: T3.2, 4.0B.
.br
SunOS: 4.1.2.
.SH REDISTRIBUTION TERMS
Explicit permission, in the form of a personally-addressed written
document or electronic mail message bearing either my written or
electronic signature, respectively, is required for legal possession
and/or use of \fBissniff\fR.  Redistribution in any form is not
permitted, under any circumstances, without explicit permission in one
of the aforementioned forms.
.SH AUTHOR
This code and documentation is Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 Jeffrey A. Uphoff
<juphoff@nrao.edu>.
.br
All rights reserved.
